So as we see here what we want to build is a quiz where we get addition and subtraction tasks here and
what which we don't have to answer
and if we're right, we want to flip this page and show
that's correct and give us the possibility to go to the next question and if we're wrong, then I
simply want to show an alert here.
So we need two components at least, a question and the answer
and we need the animation, we maybe want to switch between the components with our animation, our
transition here I should say
and I think these are all things we learned how to do both,
so let's start with it.
So I'm starting a brand new project here,
it's pretty empty,
only thing I got is my default bootstrap container again, therefore in the index.html file, the import
of bootstrap
and that really is all. The instance here is totally empty, no data has been entered yet.
Now I want to start by building up my main interface on this root page here,
so in the first row, I may want to have a title which I give the class text center to well center the
text,
this is a bootstrap helper class where I say the super quiz, choose any name you want of course.
And then I want to have a different or another row below there, maybe add a horizontal line in between
and in this row, I then want to have the question and the answer,
so here I want to use my dynamic component.
I can already insert component here but of course I need to create these components as well, then
I can set them dynamically.
Well I will do that,
so let me add a components subfolder here and in this folder, I want to have my answer.vue file
and my question.vue file for
well the question of course. Now these two files here shall be switched dynamically, now to be able to
switch them, I will already import these components,
I know the files are empty we're going to add this but I can already add the imports here because I know
I will fill,
I will fill these files. So I'll import the questions from components,
question.vue and I do also import the answer from the answer.vue file.
This allows me to add my components here, register then locally with appQuestion which points to question and
appAnswer which points to answer, like this.
And then in my data, I want to set up a proper key which holds the currently loaded component because we
want to use the dynamic components here with this component placeholder we could say, therefore here
let's say I want to set the mode which initially is
question so that we see a question at first, at the beginning and then I can simply bind it here with
colon is to bind this dynamically to mode and this will be now question or answer.
Now that won't do it though because mode is question or answer though the component has a selector
of appQuestion or appAnswer, so I can simply change this here in my mode property to appQuestion let's
say and now I'm loading the appQuestion component here at the beginning.
Now as I said, this is empty at the beginning because well I haven't added any code to question.vue
but we'll do this next.
Now in the question.vue file,
I'm going to copy in some prepared code, now this might look like a lot but I don't want to focus on
writing this javascript logic for digging here,
feel free to dig into the code to learn more about it
but I want to focus on adding this animation,
therefore I will walk you through what I'll do here.
I do have this title which outputs some questions stored in some property and then I do have some buttons
here which are basically just executing on answer where we pass this strange argument to which I'll
come back
and which then show the answer,
so one of the four answers.
Of course I need to generate the answers and I don't want to have the same button which holds the correct
answer at the same position all the time,
this is why I pass the second argument where I do have something else and just answer on my answers
which seem to be stored in array, correct,
so this determines if this answer is correct or not
so that any button here may hold the correct or false answer
and we determined it upon clicking because it gets passed here to the array, to the method on answer.
So let's have a look in the answer array there, for it's the button
data array to be precise
and there we do have a couple of objects which each have the answer set to initially to zero,
that will change of course and then whether it's correct or true,
this will also change.
Now these are my button data fields or the button data objects and then in methods, I get the generate
question method here.
Now generateQuestion is called here in the created lifecycle hook so whenever this component is loaded
and in this method here which is quite long, what I do is I generate a first and a second number because
we want to add or subtract subtract them,
then I generate which mode we want to use,
that is a random number between 1 and 2,
generate random numbers as a side note is a helper method here which I wrote to give me a random number
between a minimum and maximum border and then maybe also exclude some numbers from getting generated,
that will become important when generating the answers.
So here I do generate these three random numbers, the first and the second number for the addition or
subtraction and then the mode, subtract or add and then the correct answer set to 0 initially.
I then switch between the mode and mode
addition is just one whereas mode subtraction is just two, so just a global constant I use here. And if mode
number, a random number between 1 and 2 is one, that is what's stored in mode addition in the end,
then we well set the correct answer to first number plus second number and we set the question to what's
first number plus second number using literal here, string literal,
that's an ES6 feature which allows me to output our property or variable like this inside of a string,
so it's an ES6 feature,
and then I break of course, and in subtraction I do the same but with a minus sign in between because
now we're subtracting. And the default is that we get an error because well if we do get anything else
than one or two, something failed horribly because this generate method should only give us one or two.
Well that's the determining of the mode and of the correct answer
and then we need to generate some fake answers. So I make sure that for all the four buttons, I do
set some values, the value on the first button is the correct answer minus 10 and then the correct answer
plus 10,
so these are the minimum or maximum borders for the generate number function
but I never want to set the correct answer itself,
so I populate all four buttons with wrong answers which is why I set the correct property to false
for all four buttons here initially. I need to accept or I need to exclude I should say this correct
answer here from the random number generation
because otherwise I might have two buttons with the same answer
but one of them gives me that is wrong which would not be the desired behavior.
So all buttons are initially set to to wrong answers and then here on the correct button,
I generate the correct button, so I generate a random number between 0 and 3 because I have four elements
in the button data array which holds my buttons or a data for these buttons and then I generate a random
number to determine which button should now get the correct answer, 0 to 3 because the first button
has the index of zero and the last button has the index of three because we have four buttons again,
and then I simply generate which button should hold the correct data,
and then I set to correct data on that button,
so on this data button to be precise.
This is how I populate my buttons with wrong and right answers or data
and then finally, I do have this on onAnswer method which gets executed, in the onAnswer method, I get is
correct passed which is stored in the button data object,
keep that in mind,
correct is passed, stored here
and I do pass it when calling onAnswer and I simply emit an event here, answered where I also
emit whether this is correct or not.
Now this is all I do here, it's a lot of code,
most of the code is for the number generation which is why I didn't want to show it in detail here.
I hope it was still understandable
otherwise feel free to answer any question in a section of course,
and with that, let's move on to the answer.vue file and also populate that. Here,
I'm also going to copy in some prepared code
and of course you will find all the code attached to this lecture
and here, I basically say that's correct because I only show this if it's correct otherwise I show
this alert
and if we then click on next question, I emit an event called confirmed.
So I emit this confirmed event here,
and in the question.vue, I emit the answered event.
So now the job in our app.vue file is to listen to both events,
whether an answer was picked or was given or if we after giving a correct answer, clicked on next question.
Hence here, I will add two event listeners, @answered,
this is my answer custom event emitted from the question.vue file
and here I want to execute answered and pass on the event data stored in these specific
$event property or variable I should say created by vuejs.
And keep in mind, this comes from the question property here,
the question component excuse me and here I pass
this is correct or not and this is specifically what I want to store here in $event.
Now if the other component is loaded, then I need to, the answer component,
I need to listen to confirmed so that the answer was confirmed and we want to see the next question
and then I simply switch the mode to appQuestion again.
Right now we don't have a place to switch it to appAnswer, I'll come to this but here, we definitely switch
it back.
Now the place to switch it to appAnswer of course is in the methods object here,
we'll write this together, here
I do have my answered method I want to execute up here and I pass isCorrect here as an argument which
gets passed from this loaded component, from the question.vue file and here I check if isCorrect,
if this is true,
well then I want to set this mode to appAnswer,
so I want to load my answer component
but if this is not correct
so in the else case here,
well then I want to set this mode definitely to appQuestion, it should be in that mode already
but just to make sure or to ensure it
and I want to show wrong,
try again as the alert here,
really simple.
Well and this is all the initial set up it should need,
if I save this, my server is already running and I load this, we see it here and now let's see,
that should be this result, we see
that's correct
and we can now switch between that. The missing piece of course is that we animate this and this is what
we'll do together in the next lectures.